.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH nymserv 1 "March 2012" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
nymserv \- Pseudonymous email service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymserv
{ --start | --stop | --restart | --help |--process | --delete |
  --recipient | --help }
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nymserv
is a Python based pseudonymous email server based on \fBGnuPG\fP.  It's role
is to maintain the anonymity of a user while enabling them to communicate
via SMTP and a standard email address.
.P
.B nymserv
can be run in a console session, or more normally, a background process.  It
will periodically scan a defined Maildir for new messages and then encrypt them
for the specific anonymous recipient. Finally the encrypted and anonymized
message will be delivered to the Usenet shared mailbox
\fBalt.anonymous\.messages\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config
Override the default ~/.nymservrc configuration file.
.TP
.B --start
Start \fBnymserv\fP as a daemon.
.TP
.B --stop
Stop the \fBnymserv\fP daemon. No further actions will be performed until the
daemon is restarted or manually triggered with the \fB--process\fP option.
.TP
.B --restart
Restart the \fBnymserv\fP. The daemon should be restarted after a configuration
change or a logrotate.
.TP
.B --process
Runs the \fBnymserv\fP process a single time in the current console session and
then terminate.  This is useful for new installations and testing purposes,
prior to running in Daemon mode.
.TP
.B [-l | --list] <nym_address>
An interactive option to display the configuration details of a specific Nym.
.TP
.B --delete <nym_address>
An interactive opion to delete a Nym.  This option will remove any reference
to that Nym, including its configuration and public key.
.TP
.B [-r | --recipient] <recipent_address>
Force the nymserver to assume the message is for the defined recipient instead
of ascertaining it from the \fBX-Original-To\fP header.  This is intended for
debug and testing purposes.
.TP
.B [-h | --help]
Display a short help message
.SH FILES
This section describes the user-configurable files in \fBnymserv\fP.
.TP
.B .nymservrc
This is the main configuration file.  It defines all the options relating to
the function of nymserv, including the options to override the locations of
all the other configuration files.  By default \fB.nymservrc\fP resides in
$HOME.  The path and filename can be overridden with the \fB--config\fP option
or by setting the Environment Variable \fBNYMSERV\fP.
.P
.IP
The \fB.nymservrc\fP file is mandatory.  A sample config file
\fBconfig.sample\fP is provided with the distribution and contains details of
each supported option. \fINote:\fP This file can contain the GnuPG passphrase
for the Nymserver's private key. The other option is to enter the passphrase
on each start/restart/process.
Default=$HOME/.nymservrc
.TP
.B newsservers
This file contains a list of the full-qualified hostnames for the newsservers
that \fBnymserv\fP peers with. The peering should only be downstream as the
nymserver doesn't require an incoming feed.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/etc/newsservers
.P
.TP
.B reserved_nyms
Contains a list of reserved Nym names.  Users will be unable to create nym
addresses where the left-side of the \@ matches entries in this list.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/etc/reserved_nyms
.SH PATHS
All of the paths will be automatically created (if possible) during the first
run of \fBnymserv\fP. For this reason, it's best to configure their preferred
locations prior to the first run.
.TP
.B keyring
The path to the \fBGnuPG\fP keyring. This will hold a Public Key for each
of the Nyms created on the server. It will also contain the complete Keypair
for the Nymserver's GnuPG key.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/keyring
.TP
.B etc
Where, by default, the configuration files described in the \fIFILES\fP section
are located.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/etc
.TP
.B users
The users directory contains a configuration file for each Nym account. A copy
of the associated \fIGnuPG Public Key\fP is also retained here.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/users
.TP
.B run
Where the nymserv.pid file will be written.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/run
.TP
.B pool
Outbound files are temporarily stored here prior to being posted to
\fBalt.anonymous.messages\fP. The message payload is encrypted prior to being
written to the pool.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/pool
.TP
.B log
By default the \fBnymserv.log\fP and the \fBnymserv.err\fP are written to this
directory.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/log
.TP
.B Maildir
This is the Maildir formatted directory where \fBnymserv\fP will look for
incoming email messages. How messages get delivered to this folder is specific
to the local MTA and Procmail configuration.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/Maildir
.TP
.B held
Another Maildir formatted directory where \fBnymserv\fP will store messages
it fails to process. No further action will be taken on these messages, they
are only retained for examination by the operator to aid in ascertaining
why they couldn't be processed.
Default=$HOME/nymserv/Maildir/held
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B NYMSERV
Define a path to the main \fBnymserv\fP configuration file.  This overrides
the default \fI$HOME/.nymservrc\fP. It can be overridden with the
\fB--config\fP option on startup.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B nymserv --start
Start \fBnymserv\fP in non-interactive, daemon mode.
.TP
.B nymserv --config=/etc/nymservrc --process
Run \fBnymserv\fP in the current console session and use \fI/etc/nymservrc\fP
as the configuration file.
.TP
.B cat email | nymserv --recipient=nymname@nymdomain.org
Pipe a message to the nymserver and force a defined recipient instead of
letting the server attempt to read it from the email content.
